todo.md, before:

- add a way to add someone who downvoted a movie and track that in the users score
- user score calculation should be based on the movies they have downvoted and the movies they have upvoted, and the scores of those movies.
- add icons to imdb and rotten tomatoes instead of just the text
- add background opacity on the banners in the movie details
- add a way to click into actor / director information to see their filmography and details
  - i want to be able to sort these by popularity, release date, and rating
- add a way to click into genre information to see movies in that genre
- add a way to click into production company information to see movies from that company
- add a way to search for new movies from like oscar winners / stuff like that
- add a way to show you recommendations based on the movies you have upvoted and downvoted, not sure if this is possible with the tmdb api but it would be really cool
- add a refresh button so i can get refresh the information on the movie, mostly imdb and rotten tomatoes scores, without having to wait for the scheduled refresh
- add a way to see the movies that are coming out soon, maybe in the next month
- add a way to see the movies that are currently in theaters
- add a way to see the movies that are popular right now
- add a way to see the movies that are top rated right now
- add a way to see the movies that are trending right now
- database changes
  - recommendations
    - vote_type should be true or false for upvote downvote
    - person should be person_id not person name
    - the default recommenders should not exist in the database, maybe you link to them with negative numbers or some other way, not sure yet
  - movies
    - tmdb_data should be split up into tmdb data omdb data, its currently storing everything in omdb data
  -

Commit message:

Add offline functionality to prevent app failure when opened without internet connection

todo.md, after:

- add a way to add someone who downvoted a movie and track that in the users score
- user score calculation should be based on the movies they have downvoted and the movies they have upvoted, and the scores of those movies.
- add icons to imdb and rotten tomatoes instead of just the text
- add background opacity on the banners in the movie details
- add a way to click into actor / director information to see their filmography and details
  - i want to be able to sort these by popularity, release date, and rating
- add a way to click into genre information to see movies in that genre
- add a way to click into production company information to see movies from that company
- add a way to search for new movies from like oscar winners / stuff like that
- add a way to show you recommendations based on the movies you have upvoted and downvoted, not sure if this is possible with the tmdb api but it would be really cool
- add a refresh button so i can get refresh the information on the movie, mostly imdb and rotten tomatoes scores, without having to wait for the scheduled refresh
- add a way to see the movies that are coming out soon, maybe in the next month
- add a way to see the movies that are currently in theaters
- add a way to see the movies that are popular right now
- add a way to see the movies that are top rated right now
- add a way to see the movies that are trending right now
- database changes
  - recommendations
    - vote_type should be true or false for upvote downvote
    - person should be person_id not person name
    - the default recommenders should not exist in the database, maybe you link to them with negative numbers or some other way, not sure yet
  - movies
    - tmdb_data should be split up into tmdb data omdb data, its currently storing everything in omdb data
- actually make offline work, cause right now if you try to open the app offline it just fails
