docs/reference/environment-variables.md, before:

# Environment Variables

## Backend (`backend/.env`)

Create from template:

```bash
cp backend/.env.example backend/.env
```

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | Yes | `abc123` | Used by backend TMDB proxy |
| `OMDB_API_KEY` | Yes | `def456` | Used by backend OMDb proxy |
| `ADMIN_TOKEN` | Yes | `long-random-token` | Required for `POST /api/auth/admin/login` |
| `DATABASE_URL` | No | `sqlite:///./app.db` | Defaults to local SQLite |
| `CORS_ORIGINS` | No | `http://localhost:5173` | Comma-separated origins |
| `SECRET_KEY` | No (dev), Yes (prod) | `very-long-random-string` | JWT signing key (default is insecure; override in production) |

## Frontend (`frontend/.env`)

Create from template:

```bash
cp frontend/.env.example frontend/.env
```

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `VITE_API_URL` | Optional | `http://localhost:8155` | If empty, frontend uses same-origin |

## iOS App (`mobile/.env`)

Create manually (no committed template file):

```bash
cat > mobile/.env <<'ENV'
API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com/api
ENV
```

Accepted keys (either works):

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `API_BASE_URL` | Yes | `https://api.example.com/api` | Preferred key |
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | Alternative | `https://api.example.com/api` | Backward-compatible alias |

Used by `mobile/scripts/generate-env-xcconfig.sh` to generate:
- `mobile/Config/Env.generated.xcconfig`

## GitHub Actions Secrets

### iOS build workflow (`.github/workflows/build-mobile.yml`)

| Secret | Required | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | Yes | `https://api.example.com/api` |

The workflow validates this value and fails fast if it is missing/invalid.

## Summary

| Variable | Where set |
|---|---|
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `OMDB_API_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `ADMIN_TOKEN` | `backend/.env` |
| `DATABASE_URL` | `backend/.env` |
| `CORS_ORIGINS` | `backend/.env` |
| `SECRET_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `VITE_API_URL` | `frontend/.env` |
| `API_BASE_URL` | `mobile/.env` |
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | GitHub Actions secret (and optionally `mobile/.env`) |

## Related Docs

- [Local Development](../setup/local-development.md)
- [Deployment](../setup/deployment.md)
- [iOS Build & Distribution](../setup/ios-build.md)

Commit message:

feat(logging): add optional file logging configuration
- Introduced `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` environment variable to control file logging behavior.
- Updated `.env.example` to include `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` with a default value of `NO`.
- Modified `generate-env-xcconfig.sh` to read and normalize the `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` variable.
- Enhanced `FileLogStore` to respect the `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` setting, enabling or disabling file logging accordingly.
- Updated documentation to reflect changes in environment variable usage and logging behavior.
- Adjusted various components to ensure compatibility with the new logging feature.

docs/reference/environment-variables.md, after:

# Environment Variables

## Backend (`backend/.env`)

Create from template:

```bash
cp backend/.env.example backend/.env
```

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | Yes | `abc123` | Used by backend TMDB proxy |
| `OMDB_API_KEY` | Yes | `def456` | Used by backend OMDb proxy |
| `ADMIN_TOKEN` | Yes | `long-random-token` | Required for `POST /api/auth/admin/login` |
| `DATABASE_URL` | No | `sqlite:///./app.db` | Defaults to local SQLite |
| `CORS_ORIGINS` | No | `http://localhost:5173` | Comma-separated origins |
| `SECRET_KEY` | No (dev), Yes (prod) | `very-long-random-string` | JWT signing key (default is insecure; override in production) |

## Frontend (`frontend/.env`)

Create from template:

```bash
cp frontend/.env.example frontend/.env
```

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `VITE_API_URL` | Optional | `http://localhost:8155` | If empty, frontend uses same-origin |

## iOS App (`mobile/.env`)

Copy template:

```bash
cp mobile/.env.example mobile/.env
```

Accepted keys (either works):

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `API_BASE_URL` | Yes | `https://api.example.com/api` | Preferred key |
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | Alternative | `https://api.example.com/api` | Backward-compatible alias |
| `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` | Optional | `NO` | Must be `YES` or `NO`; defaults to `NO` |
| `MOBILE_FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` | Alternative | `NO` | Backward-compatible alias |

Used by `mobile/scripts/generate-env-xcconfig.sh` to generate:
- `mobile/Config/Env.generated.xcconfig`

## GitHub Actions Secrets

### iOS build workflow (`.github/workflows/build-mobile.yml`)

| Name | Type | Required | Example |
|---|---|---|---|
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | Secret | Yes | `https://api.example.com/api` |
| `MOBILE_FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` | Variable or Secret | No | `NO` |

`MOBILE_FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` must be `YES` or `NO` (case-insensitive). If omitted, CI defaults it to `NO`.

## Summary

| Variable | Where set |
|---|---|
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `OMDB_API_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `ADMIN_TOKEN` | `backend/.env` |
| `DATABASE_URL` | `backend/.env` |
| `CORS_ORIGINS` | `backend/.env` |
| `SECRET_KEY` | `backend/.env` |
| `VITE_API_URL` | `frontend/.env` |
| `API_BASE_URL` | `mobile/.env` |
| `FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` | `mobile/.env` |
| `MOBILE_API_BASE_URL` | GitHub Actions secret (and optionally `mobile/.env`) |
| `MOBILE_FILE_LOGGING_ENABLED` | GitHub Actions variable/secret (and optionally `mobile/.env`) |

## Related Docs

- [Local Development](../setup/local-development.md)
- [Deployment](../setup/deployment.md)
- [iOS Build & Distribution](../setup/ios-build.md)
